Sébastien Le Prestre de Vauban ( May 1, 1633 – March 30, 1707) was 
a French army general who was awarded the rank of Marshal of France and 
was active in the wars and politics of the reign of Louis XIV . Vauban was an expert in siege warfare, the construction of fortifications and civilian infrastructure, invented military technologies such as the slide bayonet, and conducted in-depth research on geography, population, finance, and taxation. He was renowned for his siege and fortification methods.

Vauban, born into a gentry family in
 eastern France, was introduced to Prince Condé by his father in 1651 and joined the Fronde rebels against the monarchy the following year . In 1653, he gained the favor of Mazarin and joined the royal army, beginning his participation in sieges . In 1655, Vauban commanded his first siege, distinguishing himself and being appointed the King's engineer at the young age of 22. By the end of the Franco-Spanish War in 1659, Vauban had participated in 13 sieges. In the following years, he inspected fortresses throughout France and traveled to Germany and 
the Netherlands on diplomatic missions. In 1667, he led an army to 
besiege Lille , capturing the city in less than a month. Afterwards, Vauban 
was appointed the new governor of the Lille fortress and oversaw a complete 
reconstruction of the city's defenses. In 1672, the Franco-Dutch War broke out, 
with French troops rapidly advancing into the Netherlands, but this also triggered the entry of many other countries into the war against France. In 1673, Vauban besieged the important city of Maastricht , using the "parallel trench" for the first time to advance towards the fortress, and captured the city in less than a month. Subsequently, Vauban captured several more cities, and in 1677 he was appointed Inspector General of Defense, officially in charge of the design, construction and maintenance of all fortresses in France.

In the 1680s, Vauban began implementing the "Meadows of Squares" defensive plan, 
intending to establish two interconnected fortresses in northeastern France as a defensive
 line against enemy invasion and a passage for French troops to advance into enemy territory.
 In the following years, Vauban continued to inspect and plan fortifications along the French borders. In 1685, Louis XIV issued the Edict of Fontainebleau , ending the Protestant policy of tolerance. Vauban, concerned about the negative impact of this edict, repeatedly pleaded for its revocation, but his pleas were ignored. In 1688 , the War of the Grand Alliance broke out. Vauban first used the artillery tactic of "ricocheting shots" during the Siege of Philipsburg , later capturing key cities in the Low Countries such as Mons , Namur , and Charleroi , and in 1694, severely damaging the English landing forces at the Battle of Camare . In 1697, the Treaty of Reswick ended the war. In 1699, Vauban was elected a member of the Royal Academy of Sciences .